# Creating a Modern Web application With AWS

## Introduction

I have already created my resume website with AWS however it was simple and only used a few services. This application serves as a way for me to create a web application using more services.

## Use Case

The use case for this project is to be able to implement a fully functional web app using AWS including having a web domain, cloudfront distribution, Automated code build and continuous integration.

## Cloud Research

For this project I used Cloud9 as my IDE for creating everything I need for the Web application. I learned how to create an S3 bucket and set configuration options using AWS CLI commands.

This web application will be using AWS Fargate for the backend of the web application. Using AWS Cloudformation I created a VPC for my environment, setup IAM roles that define the permissions for the containers to have in AWS, A Security Group, Two Nat Gateways  one for each public subnet, and a DynamoDB VPC Endpoint.

Next I learned to create a Docker Image which will host my python Flask application. The flask application is a service api which returns images to the main webpage. Afterwards I setup a ECS cluster for the containers to deploy too. I also created a log group for Cloudwatch to monitor and receive logs generated by the contianers. After I created that I went on to create a Network Load balancer, NLB Listener, and load balancer target group.

Next I learned to create a CI/CD pipeline using CodeBuild to build the code, CodeCommit for the source commit, and CodePipeline that will act as the inbetween for the services and deploy the finished application. Next I created a DynamoDB database to store data and using the newly created pipeline updated the webpage with the integrated database.

I then began using AWS Cognito to implement a way to authorize users to the website. I first began by creating a User pool to be authorized against and a User Pool Client for the webpage to be authorized to make unauthorized API calls to aws. After doing that I created a Restful API to handle the user authorization and updated the website through the pipeline.

Next I created a decoupled microservice which will handle collecting the data of user clicks. I use AWS SAM CLI to create and provision all the resources. I First created a new CodeCommit respoitory that will handle and hold all of my new files. The files I created are a Cloud formation template and a lambda function file written in python. The lambda function integrates with the DyanmoDB database to collect data. Next I created a new S3 bucket where all the code packages will be uploaded too.

## Social Proof

[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/rockyle98_100daysofcloud-cloud-aws-activity-6822239038217486336-51WB)
